README
======
This repository contains code for

Christian Fiedler, Carsten W. Scherer, Sebastian Trimpe, 
Practical and Rigorous Uncertainty Bounds for Gaussian Process Regression, 
AAAI21

Note that a version of this article with corrections is available at

https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.02796

The code in this repository has been updated accordingly.

Introduction
------------
This directory contains the Python source code to reproduce all the experiments
in the main text and the supplementary text.

Setup
-----
All experiments were performed with Python 3.8 in a Miniconda environment
running on Ubuntu 18.04.4 LTS. More details can be found in the supplementary text.

The file environment.yml contains the exact environment used for the experiments
(the file was generated by running conda env export > environment.yml).
In order to run also the Jupyter Notebooks, use extended_environment.yml instead.

Running the experiments
-----------------------
We assume now that a Python environment as described in environment.yml or
extended_environment.yml is available. Furthermore, we assume that the files
utilities.py and experiments.py are in the same directory as the scripts.

### Experiments with synthetic data
All experiments with synthetic data were performed by running each of the
scripts exp_1_1_a.py up to exp_1_4_c.py. Note that each script expects a
directory called outputs in which the script's output is stored.
The experimental settings can be easily
adapted in the script files. In particular, the number of threads used by joblib
can be adjusted by setting n_jobs, the number of functions generated for
each of the experiments by n_rep_funcs, the number of learning instances by
n_rep_training and the number of training samples in each run by n_samples.

### Reproducing the figures and tables
* Figure 1, LEFT, in the main text was generated with the script
  illustrating_nominal.py
  Running it with
  python illustrating_nominal.py
  produced the graphic as file
  figure_example_nominal.pdf
  in the same directory.
* Figure 1, RIGHT, in the main text was generated with the script
  illustrating_misspec.py
  Running it with
  python illustrating_nominal.py
  produced the graphic as file
  figure_example_misspec.pdf
  in the same directory. 
* Table 1 in the main text summerises the results of the scripts exp_1_1_a.py 
  and exp_1_1_b.py. Data has been analysed with the Jupyter notebook 
  AnalysingPlottingExperiments.ipynb
* Table 2 in the main text summerises the results of the scripts
  exp_1_4_a.py and exp_1_4_b.py. Data has been analysed with the Jupyter notebook 
  AnalysingPlottingExperiments.ipynb
* Table 3 in the main text summerises the results of the script
  exp_1_4_c.py. Data has been analysed with the Jupyter notebook 
  AnalysingPlottingExperiments.ipynb
  



